**Team Covengers**

**Challenges faced by Pharma Industry**

**Problem Statement:**

The pharma supply chain is quite complex and has multiple entry points,
even then there is no robust and secure.system to track the movement of
these drugs.Tracking these drugs can be challenging due to many reasons
like companies.

Further, the pharma supply chain is highly fragmented, has various
stages and involves multiple hands change from product manufacturers to
product packagers to logistics partners and finally to a pharmacy from
where we buy these drugs. Still the current system in pharma supply
chain is not interoperable and unified.

When drug changes hands, **there is no system** for the receiving
stakeholder to verify that **the drug he received is an original product
from the manufacturer**. Therefore, an increased number of stakeholders
and nodes in the supply chain results in a complex system with very less
control and nearly no transparency. **One of the biggest pain point for
these stakeholders is to track the product's journey that can reveal its
point of origin, its real time location at any point of time and the
route it has taken to arrive at the pharmacy.**

**Additionally, several drugs remain active below a particular
temperature and therefore during its journey it visit is mandatory to
maintain the desired temperature range for the drug to remain active and
effective.** Any fluctuation the temperature above the desired range can
hamper the effectiveness of the drug and make it unfit for medical use.
And there is **no way for the consumer or the company to know if the
drug has been maintained at the proper temperature throughout its
journey and is still active.** In this opaque supply chain structure a
manufacturer has no clear visibility into the inventory of distributors
and wholesalers, thus it becomes a tedious task for the manufacturer to
efficiently manage his inventory to a level where any spikes in demand
can be handled without any issue.

**Drug shortage leads to delayed treatments of patients and thus poses a
significant threat to public health.** The issue of drug shortage
demands attention and collaboration from everyone involved in providing
these life-saving medicines to patients. But because of the complex
supply chain, there is lack of coordination among the players to better
communicate their demands.

**The manufacturers don't get accurate information about the demand on
time that results in delayed manufacturing and supplying of drugs.**

**But the biggest challenge in such a scenario is the fact that there is
no direct contact between the company and consumers who have bought this
drug.**

**Summary of Challenges faced by Pharma Industry**

-   Complex supply chain

-   Ensuring that the drug remained at the proper temperature

-   Difficult for manufacturer to keep his inventory updated

-   Drug shortage

-   Counterfeit Drugs

**Solution:**

Today, pharma companies are exploring new routes to synthesize new drugs
and therefore their raw material requirements have become quite complex.
Because of these requirements these raw materials are sourced from
various suppliers, who are geographically scattered across the globe.

As the raw materials required, run into tens of thousands,It becomes
very crucial for **the manufacturing companies to have a check on the
ingredients and to ensure that the suppliers are complying to the
guidelines provided by them**. In the current system there is no clear
way to know if the raw material supplied is authentic or it is some
cheap counterfeit.

**In the current system there is no clear way to know if the raw
material supplied is authentic** or it is some cheap counterfeit.It
becomes very crucial for the manufacturing companies to have a check on
the ingredients and to ensure.

or it is some cheap counterfeit. Once the raw materials are sourced from
the suppliers,the manufacturing process starts. In many cases, these
logistic partners don't have the adequate capabilities to maintain these
drugs at the required conditions. **Thus leading to drugs losing their
effectiveness.** **But for a manufacturer it is very difficult to ensure
that the drugs were moved under the appropriate conditions as specified
by them.**

**Now let's understand how blockchain can help to keep a check on
counterfeiting:**

**A blockchain based supply chain have information on all the parties
involved like ingredient suppliers, manufacturers, logistic partners,
wholesalers, distributors, pharmacists or hospitals**. At each node in
the supply chain, drop-off and pick up activity gets recorded in the
shared ledger along with the time stamp. The physical transfer of
ownership of the goods, gets recorded virtually in the blockchain, only
after each receiving party verifies that the shipment has been received
from the correct source. In a blockchain ledger, no one can tamper the
records in the chain, including their own. **Suppliers will initiate the
blockchain by recording the serial number on the packs of the raw
materials which are to be sent to the manufacturer.** Additionally,
location of the supplier will also be recorded on the blockchain. These
suppliers also need to upload the certificates of the authenticity of
these supplied materials.This can be done by getting their facility
inspected by a regulatory body and getting a legal certificate proving
the same.

**When the ingredients reach the manufacturer, the event will be
recorded on the blockchain along with the date of receiving and the
respective location.** Once drugs are manufactured they will be placed
in bottles, vials or strips labelled with unique identifier and will
then be grouped and packaged.These packages will have labels that will
be scanned and recorded at every point throughout its journey from the
factory till it reaches the pharmacy. Whenever these packets exchange
hands, the concerned party will scan the label on the packets and the
transaction will be recorded permanently on the blockchain.If anyone
tries to temper the product or the information, it can be detected
easily. Similarly, the whole journey of drugs from the ingredient
supplier to pharmacy will be recorded digitally on the blockchain. The
consumer can scan the unique number and can know the origin of the drug,
the route that drug has taken and even the ingredients used to
manufacture the drug, provided the customer has been granted access, to
see this information by the manufacturers.

Many medical aids like vaccines are sensitive to environmental
conditions and any fluctuations in these conditions can make them
ineffective. IOT devices like temperature sensors can be attached to the
packages that will record the temperature and other conditions of the
package throughout its journey. Any change in the temperature will be
recorded on the blockchain. Additionally the smart contracts will be
executed when the compliance conditions are not met and an alert will be
sent to the relevant parties in the supply chain.

**Thus through this technology, it can be ensured that the drugs remain
in the suggested storage conditions throughout their journey**. Even the
consumer, with the help of this shared digital ledger, can easily know
if the drug is active by scanning the label on the drug. **Blockchain's
transparency and traceability provides a great potential advantage to
the pharma industry.** In case the drug shipment goes missing due to
counterfeiting operations, it is much easier to locate it on the chain
as the complete transaction is recorded on the ledger and it can be
easily known. who was possessing the consignment when the issue
happened.

**Technology Stack :**

-   Web3.js

-   Ethers.js

-   Tensorflow, Open CV (Python)

-   Nest JS for backend.
